On the maiden mission of a new Enterprise, the God-like being known as Q challenges the crew to discover the secret of a mysterious base in a truly intelligent and civilized fashion.
The crew of the Enterprise is infected with a virus that causes them to behave as though they were intoxicated.
When the leader of an alien culture takes a romantic interest in Lt. Yar, he claims her for his own, to the dismay of his own wife, who, in turn, challenges Tasha in a fight to the death.
At the Federation's first encounter with the hostile, thievish Ferengi race, both the Enterprise and their 'daimon' (captain) Tarr's spaceship are immobilized by a force field from a dead-presumed planet. It turns out to be the 'portal', a gatekeeper, last survivor of a superior civilization wiped out by their star's supernova. He captures both races' scouting teams and test if they deserve to be spared or put down as hopeless barbarians. The Ferengi try blaming the humans, Riker brutal, yet noble honesty.
Although Riker considers maverick federation scientist Kosinski's project to vastly boost the propulsion absurd, Picard obeys the admiralty orders. Fascinated, Wesley sits with his alien assistant and wins his confidence. the results surpass even Kosinski's wildest dreams, jumping into a galaxy far beyond the explored part of the universe. Deciding against immediate study, Picard orders Kosinski to get them back. Only Wesley noticed that his assistant, who 'faded' supernaturally, is the real key. The next jump brings to where the crew's deepest hopes and fears come ...
The Enterprise is transporting to the neutral planet parliament peace delegates from two races which can't stand each other long enough to occupy neighboring suites, yet both want to join the Federation. Traveling trough a mysterious energy cloud, some gets aboard and keeps jumping from crew members to machinery and vice versa, as if seeking a suitable host and learning about the ship, without revealing itself. The crew catches on slowly, as nobody seems seriously affected, except Wesley's engineering mentor Singh, who is killed in a warp technology accident, but '...
After exhausting activities to help a human colony settle, the Enterprise crew is delighted to take their first-ever shore leave on Edo, an extremely friendly planet. Half in jest, Picard says it seems to too good to be true, an Eden-like playground. Alas, it is, for while teaching native adolescents football, Wesley unwittingly commits a minor transgression in the zone where all errors suffer the single punishment: death by painless injection. Back aboard Enterprise, the senior officers struggle with an entity defying even the known laws of nature, which is facing ...
The Enterprise is kept waiting for days on a mysterious rendezvous with Ferenge 'daimon' (captain) Bok's spaceship, then receives a gift which stuns Picard: the USS Stargazer, the lost vessel he commanded in a legendary battle, won by inventing a now classic maneuver. He goes aboard to recover some belongings and takes it in tow, but suffers worrying headaches and starts behaving erratically, until he leaves the Enterprise for it. Data works out Bok's motivation for the gift against his race's mercantile attitude, which even gets him removed from command. Wesley ...
The Enterprise encounters Q again, and he tempts Riker by endowing him with the powers of the Q.
While on a mission to a planet called Haven, Counselor Troi meets her husband to be, a marriage arranged by her father years before, as the Enterprise encounters a ship far deadlier than any combat could provide.
Captain Picard and some of his crew are caught in a deadly trap in the holodeck as the result of a ship-wide scan from an alien race.
The Enterprise visits the planet where Data was created and discovers another android like him, but when he's assembled, he's not EXACTLY like him.
Riker, Troi, Data and Yar beam down to a planet ruled by a matriarchal government in the hopes of locating a missing freighter crew.
The Enterprise docks at a starbase for repairs where it is commandeered by a race of technologically-linked aliens intent on using the vessel for their own purposes.
The Enterprise transports an elderly Starfleet Admiral to negotiate a hostage crisis. When the Admiral takes a de-aging drug, he endangers both his life and the mission.
A planet that was able to cloak itself for thousands of years suddenly reveals itself, with its inhabitants proposing peace. But, after initial negotiations, children of the Enterprise are kidnapped due to the impotence of the inhabitants.
On Velara III, Geordi and Data discover a microscopic life form responsible for the death of an engineer stationed on the base.
Picard finds himself facing a strenuous test of his loyalty to Starfleet, one which the other members of the crew are struggling to cope with, whilst Wesley faces an equally challenging entrance exam at Starfleet Academy.
The Enterprise searches for answers as to why 3 Klingon warriors were the only survivors aboard a freighter just inside the neutral zone that was attacked by what seemed to be Ferengi ship.
The Enterprise encounters a planet long dead, but technical equipment still functions for the purpose of selling off its arsenal, along with self sufficiency.
While observing a solar flare, the Enterprise happens to pick up distress calls from a breaking-down freighter. Two of the six people aboard get killed as there's no time left to beam aboard properly because the cargo was sent first, yet the other two crew members seem to care only for the freight. Their passengers, from their neighbor planet, contest ownership because their agreed payment aboard the freighter was lost. It's their only produce, vital for the other planet since it was struck by a general plague. Yet Dr. Crusher soon realizes it's not really medicine as...
The shuttle bringing Troi back to the Enterprise from an individual mission crashes on a near-unknown planet. It was presumed uninhabited, but shows atypical, live-like activity. Riker leads an away-team, including Data, which discovers the shuttle is controlled and access barred by a shape-shifting, oily slick of hostile, almost sadistic nature, with immense powers. Attempts to pass it cause Riker to be temporarily swallowed, Yar to be killed. Picard beams down to take command while Deana works out it's acting out of deep frustration, which they must tap into.
Puzzled, the Enterprise follows the enigmatic trail of distress messages left behind by the vessel of reputed time-space-continuum researcher Dr. Paul Manheim, which went missing years ago during his last experiment. It went terribly wrong, causing a time-distorting ripple to spread from a binary star system and pulsar's tapped-into unimaginable energy, which already affects the Enterpise crew. To prevent the galaxy being ripped open, the process must be reversed, although gravely, maybe fatally, injured Mannheim can only give unreliable instructions to Data. Picard ...
After diverting to a secret meeting with an old friend and some of Starfleet's finest commanders, Picard finds the Horatio blown to bits just hours after the meeting and he returns the Enterprise to Earth looking for answers.
Data finds an ancient space capsule from Earth, with three people who have been frozen for over 400 years. Meanwhile, Starfleet sends the Enterprise to the edge of the Romulan Neutral Zone, where their starbases and personnel have disappeared after decades without contact between the Federation and the Romulans. Meanwhile, Dr. Crusher revives the three survivors who died of incurable diseases and were placed in cryonic freeze after their deaths in the hopes that cures might be found in the future. Upon their first encounter, Captain Picard also learns from the ...
