Deanna is impregnated by a unknown alien life-form, and Dr. Katherine Pulaski joins the Enterprise as the ship's new Chief Medical Officer.
The Enterprise encounters a mysterious void in space and when they move in closer to investigate further, it envelops them and they can't get out.
An attempt to provide Data with a challenging Sherlock Holmes holodeck RPG scenario backfires when its Prof. Moriarty character accidentally becomes self-aware.
The Enterprise rescues the captain of a broken-down freighter, only to become involved in a dispute between feuding worlds--each demanding custody of their guest. Data seeks help from Guinan in understanding humor.
The crew ferries a deaf mediator to Solais V to negotiate an end to a civil war.
The Enterprise respond to a request for medical assistance from Dr. Ira Graves, considered by many to be the greatest living mind in the universe. Graves didn't want any help and the Enterprise was summoned by his assistant Kareen. He is a crotchety old man who doesn't really like people but is now in the terminal stages of his illness. He taught Data's creator, Dr. Soong, everything he knows and describes himself as the android's grandfather. Knowing that the end is near, he transfers all of his knowledge and intellect into Data. As a result, Data begins to act ...
The Enterprise is en route to Star Station India when receive a distress signal from the USS Lantree, a Federation supply ship. When they arrive, they find everyone aboard the Lantree dying of what seems to be old age. They proceed to the Lantree's last port of call, the Darwin genetic research facility on Gagarin IV only to find that they too are suffering from rapid aging. Picard and Dr. Pulaski clash when she brings aboard one of the children from the station and in order to complete her examination, takes him aboard a shuttle craft in order to isolate him from the ...
When the Federation promotes an officer exchange program, Commander Riker decides to accept an assignment aboard a Klingon war ship. As the first Federation officer to serve aboard a Klingon vessel, Riker has to gain the trust of his new shipmates and particularly that of his irascible captain. As part of the same exchange program, the Enterprise welcomes aboard Ensign Mendon from a culture that is forever seeking to improve operational efficiency. When he discovers a bacteria attacking the integrity of the ship's hull, he searches for a solution on his own rather ...
When Data resigns his commission rather than be dismantled for examination by an inadequately skilled scientist, a formal hearing is convened to determine whether Data is considered property without rights or is a sentient being.
Ens. Wesley Crusher suffers from the pangs of first love when the Enterprise is tasked to transport a young woman, Salia, back to her home where she is to become the leader of her people. Traveling with her is her guardian and teacher, Anya, who is more that just a bit overprotective. Wesley very much wants to be with her - and her likewise with him - but there are few opportunities and Anya continually interferes. Guinan and others provide him with advice. When Salia reveals her true self to him, he re-evaluates his feelings.
Picard and the Enterprise respond to a distress call from its sister ship the USS Yamato. It has been facing a number of serious technical glitches and they lost 18 crew members when the computer turned off the force field on an open shuttle bay. Before the Enterprise can assist however, the Yamato is destroyed with all lives lost. The explosion is apparently the result of a failure in their matter/anti-matter pods but Picard suspects it may have something to do with a relic the Yamato's captain obtained on an archaeological dig on a nearby planet. They are in the ...
When the Enterprise is advised by a passing Klingon vessel that there is strange debris in orbit around a nearby planet, they investigate only to find a piece of a NASA spacecraft emblazoned with the US flag. The planet below has severe weather and an unbreathable atmosphere except for one small area that appears to be inhabitable by humans. Riker, Data and Worf beam down to the surface only to find a single revolving door leading them to the casino floor in the Hotel Royale. They soon find that they are trapped there and cannot exit. As they explore the hotel, they ...
Deep in space, the Enterprise comes across a Federation shuttle craft that is floating in space and without much power but which does exhibit the life signs of one human aboard. They bring the craft aboard only to find that it is one of their own shuttle craft and to their amazement find a duplicate, but unconscious, Captain Picard aboard. Data and Geordi Laforge manage to restore power and determine that the craft actually comes from 6 hours into the future and the shuttle's log reveals that the Enterprise will be destroyed. As the Enterprise enters a dangerous ...
Riker's delight at being offered a command of the USS Aries turns to frustration when the man sent to prepare him for his mission is his estranged father; Worf's behavior leads Wesley to delve into Klingon tradition.
On arriving at a newly identified planetary group, the crew finds that the entire system is unstable. As the person in charge of Wesley Crusher's training and education, Commander Riker wants to put him in charge of the planetary mineral survey, the results of which should explain why the system has become so unstable. He has to command a team for the first time, all of whom are older than himself. Data meanwhile has a pen pal of sorts when he establishes radio contact with Sarjenka, a young girl from a nearby planet. They exchange information for several weeks when ...
Q tries to prove that Picard needs him as part of their crew by hurling the Enterprise 7,000 light years away where they encounter the Borg for the first time.
With Picard away for routine surgery, the Enterprise responds to an apparent distress call from a Pakled vessel.
When Starfleet receives an Earth-like distress signal from deep in space, the Enterprise is sent to investigate. Picard suspects the Earthlings in question may have originated with SS Mariposa which carried a group of Utopians hundreds of years before. He is intrigued at the odd mix of equipment they carry. When they arrive, they realize that solar flares from the planet's sun will kill them and the Captain orders the colonists removed to the Enterprise for their safety. When the refugees mention there is another group from which they've separated for hundreds of ...
The Enterprise is transporting delegates to a diplomatic conference dealing with Federation membership. Counselor Troi is more than just a bit embarrassed when her mother Lwaxanna, as outrageous as ever, arrives on board the Enterprise. She is the official Ambassador from Betazed but that isn't the only reason she is there. She is going through 'The Phase', a time in her life when her sexual drive increases fourfold. She's clearly got her eyes on the Captain who decides to take refuge on the holodeck as private detective Dixon Hill. With him away, she announces that ...
The Enterprise is ordered to proceed to an emergency rendezvous to collect a special envoy who is traveling from Starbase 153 to meet them. They are given no information about the nature of the emergency, just that they will be briefed by the emissary on arrival. She is K'Ehleyr, a Klingon who has been sent to deal with a Klingon warship - the T'Ong - that has been found in deep space with a crew in long-term stasis. They predate the current peaceful coexistence between the Federation and the Klingon Empire and as far as they are concerned, the Klingon warriors aboard ...
The crew of the Enterprise participates in war games.
Riker returns from an away team mission wounded and infected with microbes from the planet below. He is soon in a coma in sick bay, the microbes having fused itself to his sciatic nerve and impeding his normal functions. Dr. Pulaski cannot find a cure and although she can kill the microbes, it would also likely kill Riker. With only a hour or so before the spreading disease reaches his brain, Pulaski stimulates his neural impulses leading Riker to recall previous events aboard the Enterprise. The Doctor realizes that negative emotions are what will defeat the the ...
