The Enterprise is carrying an eminent scientist, Dr. Paul Stubbs, to the site of a binary star where they are expecting a massive stellar explosion to occur in a few hours. He has been waiting many years for this to occur and has devoted his entire life to its study. The Enterprise however begins to suffer from a series of malfunctions, some minor but others far more serious. Meanwhile, Dr. Beverly Crusher has returned to the Enterprise after a year at Starfleet Medical. She's concerned however if her presence may be limiting son Wesley's development. Can a 17 ...
After a century of silence, the Enterprise receives a message from the Shelia system informing them that they have discovered a human colony on a world in their sector. As they will be colonizing the planet themselves in four days time, the want the Enterprise to evacuate all humans from their territory. The planet in question is in a high radiation zone and no one can understand how any human could be living there. As Data is immune to the radiation he is sent to the planet to arrange for the inhabitants departure. Once there however, he finds there is a population ...
The Enterprise responds to a distress call from Rana IV, a Federation colony that is under attack from an unknown alien ship. When they arrive, they find the entire surface of the planet destroyed, save for a single house and two occupants.
A proto-Vulcan culture worships Captain Picard and prepares to offer Counselor Troi as a sacrifice.
A startling surprise awaits the crew of the Enterprise when a mission costs the life of a crew member, who left her son behind.
The Enterprise picks up ancient radio signal code from the ruined planet Aurelius 9, remnant of the total war over 1,000 years ago between Mentaurs and Promelians which caused both races' extinction. They find a Promelian battle-cruiser still floats in an asteroid field, so Picard, Data and Lieutenant Worf beam inside, finding a message from the captain he alone takes blame for all casualties. Barely back on board, they learn the Enterprise is immobilized by an energy-draining radiation field, the very booby trap that killed the Promelian ship's crew, which will ...
LaForge gets left behind on a storm-plagued planet when the rest of his team encounters a Romulan warrior.
While the Enterprise hosts negotiations for control of a stable wormhole, Troi forms a personal relationship with an opposing negotiator, unaware of his true being.
The Enterprise pursues a race of "gatherers" who continue to raid Federation outposts, unaware of the dangers lurking among them.
When a Romulan officer defects to the Federation with a warning of a impending invasion, Capt. Picard struggles to decide if he is to be believed.
Investigating a planet applying for membership into the Federation, the crew of the Enterprise finds a group of inhabitants who used to be soldiers, but now fight for their very existence.
While visiting a planet under civil war, Dr. Crusher is taken hostage by an opposing faction of the planet's ruling government.
Much to Picard's displeasure, Q reappears on the Enterprise, claiming to have been ejected from the Q Continuum, and therefore, lost his powers.
The widow of respected scientist Dr. Nel Apgar accuses Riker of seducing her and killing her husband. Rather than turn Riker over for unfavorable trial, the Enterprise reconstructs the facts.
The Enterprise C enters the Enterprise D's time and space continuum, where they find Picard and crew in a constant state of war with the Klingons, and only Guinan knows it.
After returning from a cybernetics conference to the Enterprise, Data creates his own "child," much to the chagrin of his captain, and without regards to the ramifications with Starfleet.
A Klingon commander comes aboard the Enterprise in an officer exchange program initiated by Starfleet, much to the chagrin of the crew.
Picard is kidnapped and held with three different aliens and meanwhile replaced with a replica as impostor captain.
After mediating a difficult trade agreement, Captain Picard is encouraged to take a much needed rest on a vacationing planet, where he's visited by a strange race from the future, in search of a dangerous weapon.
The Enterprise reaches out to an alien being, while dancing around with the Romulans, who want to attack it in an act of vengeance.
A shy member of the "Enterprise" crew becomes addicted to the holodeck, where relationships are easier there than in real life, when his knowledge is needed in engineering.
When transporting a dangerous material to the Enterprise, Data is kidnapped and the crew is led to believe he is dead when the shuttlecraft he was piloting explodes enroute.
Legendary Federation ambassador Sarek visits the Enterprise to conclude peace talks with a race called the Legarans. His arrival is accompanied with a rash of unusual emotional outbursts among the crew.
When Deanna's mother spurns advances made by a Ferengi Daimon, he takes it upon himself to kidnap the two of them, along with Commander Riker and steal them away aboard his ship.
The Enterprise finds a deserted planet where a ship has crashed, and, with it, the lone survivor with no memory, but extraordinary healing powers.
Responding to a distress call on one of the Federation's outer-most colonies, the Enterprise arrives...only to find a big hole in the ground where the town used to be, and discovers the Borg are behind the attack.
