Commander Riker had no choice as acting captain but fire full force on the Borg starship, despite Picard being on board of it, altered to a Borg calling himself Locutus, both ships are damaged. Emergency repairs shouldn't take too long to make the appointment with Admiral J. P. Hanson, who announces Klingons coming to the rescue, but Picard seems lost forever: Riker is granted full command. Technology is adapted to render it unpredictable, such as randomized phaser settings. Hanson's communications are cut, the war must be going badly. To avoid musical chairs, Borg ...
After defeating the Borg, the crew of the Enterprise experiences shore leave in various ways. Captain Picard's return to his family's vineyard in France has some extraordinary repercussions following his time spent as a member of the Borg collective.
After an accident aboard the Enterprise leaves one of its children in grave danger, Data commandeers the Enterprise, driven to take him to an unknown origin, where an interesting figures awaits.
On a rescue mission to an alien shipwrecked training mission, they discover one of its trainees to be a human.
Dr. Crusher's fear of losing loved ones becomes real when her worries create an alternate reality.
The crew of the Enterprise enters into orbit around the home planet of their former crew-mate, Tasha Yar, where they encounter her sister.
When the head of the Klingon high council passes on, Picard finds himself in the middle of the struggle for the now-vacant position. Meanwhile, Worf re-unites with a past love, only to find he now has a son.
Riker has to quit his birthday party during a so far uneventful patrol voyage at the Neutral Zone to head an away team when a Romulan secret base is found on a planet which was believed uninhabited. He awakes 16 years later, as widowed captain of the Enterprise, just cured after 9 years of viral amnesia, with a son Jean-Luc. Even Picard, now an admiral who came to conduct with Riker, given his forgotten dealing with them, historical peace negotiations with the Romulans, loses all authority over him when he finally finds his late wife's image on the strangely ...
Before leaving for Starfleet Academy, Wesley Crusher accompanies Captain Picard on a dangerous mission.
As an unknown force drags the Enterprise, Deanna Troi struggles with the loss of her powers.
Data tries to comprehend the complex emotions between O'Brien and Keiko, who are about to be married.
After being fired upon by a Cardassian vessel, Picard races against time to find out the facts behind the Cardassian commander's claim that the Federation attacked one of their outposts.
While answering a distress call, Picard finds himself not sure of exactly who he is dealing with, but he's sure he's not dealing with the planet's version of the Devil, as she claims to be.
Effects of passing through a wormhole give the Enterprise crew a sense that they were unconscious for more than the thirty seconds they've been led to believe.
Commander William Riker has been on an acculturation mission under an alias for months on the Arkonian planet, surgically altered to appear like a local, but he gets badly wounded, beyond their medical skills because his internal organs are unknown to them. Captain Jean-Luc Picard decides to speed up his official diplomatic approach, formally the First Contact, and intercede on Riker's behalf, but they are told by a fascinated open-minded Atkonian scientist that her planet's culture is particularly xenophobic so they reject any alien being as being unequal to them. ...
While the Enterprise is in a star-base Lt. Commander Geordi La Forge gets a very special visitor, brilliant engineering designer Dr. Leah Brahms, who he feels to know almost intimately as a 'hologram version' of herself with 'whom' he bonded. However the real Brahms proves icy and arrogantly unwilling to consider any of Geordi's empirical findings could conceivably stand against her theoretically impermeable truth. They take on the challenge to collaborate and learn to know each-other better, but when Geordi shows her his hologram version of her Brahms feels almost ...
The Enterprise has finally tracked the missing starship USS Brittain. Counselor Deanna Troi senses trouble with the life on board and joins Riker's boarding party. The crew was slashed to death; the only survivor, Betazoid Counselor Andrus Hagan, is in shock. Doctor Beverly Crusher 's autopsy concludes 34 crewmen killed each other with phasers and other weapons, even bare hands; a tape recorded a paranoiac fear among them. While the Enterprise tows the Brittain to the nearest starbase, its own crewmen starts sensing another presence and experiencing rising fear, ...
Lt. Commander Geordi La Forge and an old friend fight to defeat a parasite that is trying to transform them into another species.
When assigned to investigate an unknown probe, Lt. Barclay is electrocuted through a shuttlecraft's computer, where he receives an unexplainable boost of confidence and a vast increase in his knowledge.
The Enterprise is at Tegus 3, to host the Federation archaeologists council's annual symposium, where Picard is to give the key-note lecture on its enigmatic ruins, now forbidden to outsiders. To his surprise he's visited by Vash, a flirtatious girl-friend, displeased to learn he never mentioned her to any crew-member, who is now on the council. Another visit gets the coldest welcome: almost almighty Q, who ridicules Picard's speech and decides to 'repay' saving his life and Continuum membership by transforming Picard and his accompanying crew-members during the ...
A retired admiral boards the Enterprise in an effort to determine the actions aboard the ship surrounding an act of sabotage and possible treason.
Counselor Troi's mother visits the Enterprise and becomes infatuated with a man whose culture forces him into a suicidal ritual called "The Resolution."
Dr. Crusher falls for someone who's not at all what she expects him to be.
Geordi is brainwashed by the Romulans to assassinate a Klingon ambassador.
When a female crew member is infatuated with Lieutenant Commander Data, he decides to give a romantic relationship a try. Also, the Enterprise finds itself having to maneuver through a dangerous nebula.
Both Capt. Picard and Lt. Worf must decide where their priorities lie as the Klingon Empire descends into civil war.
