The Enterprise is in danger when Janice Lester, one of Kirk's former lovers, steals his body.
Kirk, Spock, and McCoy become trapped in the past of another world.
Kirk and Spock meet Abraham Lincoln and Surak of Vulcan and must do battle with some of history's most terrible villains.
To acquire the resources to cure a space plague, Kirk must resolve a mining dispute between the cultural elites of the cloud city of Stratos and the miners on the surface.
The Enterprise picks up a group of space "hippies" looking for Eden.
While seeking a cure for a fever ravaging the Enterprise, Kirk and Spock encounter Flint, a hermit-like Earthman, and his beautiful young ward.
The Enterprise must deal with discorporeal cloud-like aliens who have already destroyed the inhabitants of a library planet and plan to eliminate the Enterprise crew if they cannot acquire a human host.
Kirk, McCoy, and Sulu are stranded on a barren planet where a mysterious woman attempts to kill them one at a time, while the Enterprise must travel halfway across the galaxy to rescue them.
Kirk beams down on a diplomatic mission...and finds himself on an Enterprise where all the crew have vanished and only a mysterious woman resides.
The Enterprise finds itself host to two alien beings from the same planet, who share an intense and self-destructive hatred of each other.
Kirk and Spock deliver medicine to an insane asylum where a former Starfleet captain is being held, only to discover that he has freed the inmates and is running the place.
The Enterprise must escort an alien princess to her marriage to seal an interplanetary alliance...but she becomes attracted to Kirk.
On a planet doomed to destruction, Kirk, Spock & McCoy become involved with two aliens who use them as laboratory animals in a bizarre series of tests on an alien empath who may be the savior of her planet.
When a landing party investigating Scalos begins to vanish one by one, Kirk, Spock and McCoy try to find out what is happening before  MORE. of the crew disappears, until Kirk himself is abducted. Kirk finds the cause to be MORE.
Kirk and his crew find themselves at the mercy of powerful individuals who possess mind-over-matter powers...and plan to use the Enterprise crew for their twisted entertainment.
When the Enterprise investigates the disappearance of another starship, the crew loses Kirk in a dimensional interphase and must deal with a hostile alien race while trying to recover him.
The Enterprise must deflect an asteroid on a collision course with an inhabited planet...but discover the asteroid is a spaceship with a population unaware of the outside world.
When the Enterprise brings aboard Klingon prisoners, an alien entity pits both sides against each other in an ever-escalating struggle.
When coming to an exaphobic isolationist planet, Captain Kirk and his landing party are punished for trespassing. They are sentenced to death in a surreal recreation of the Gunfight at the OK Corral with the landing on the losing side.
or is there in beauty no truth? Miranda Jones, a telepath who studied mental disciplines on Vulcan, arrives with Ambassador Kollos, a Medusan - an alien life form whose physical form is so hideous, humanoid life forms are driven MORE.
The Enterprise travels to a planet where a scientific team has killed themselves... except for the children, who begin to act oddly.
Kirk, Spock and McCoy beam down to a planet in the path of an oncoming asteroid. However, Kirk disappears and the Enterprise is forced to abandon the search to stop the asteroid in time. Meanwhile, Kirk recovers consciousness but has MORE.
Captain Kirk becomes increasingly erratic and orders the Enterprise into Romulan space...where the ship is captured by a beautiful Romulan commander.
Stardate 5431.4: The Enterprise is intercepted by a starship of unknown design and a woman from the ship beams directly into the bridge and uses a device to render the Enterprise's crew unconscious. She then walks over to Spock... When MORE.
