Kirk and the Enterprise must combat parasitic aliens.
Kirk and Spock must travel into the past in order to prevent a deranged McCoy from altering history... and eradicating their own past.
Kirk and Spock encounter a mysterious alien named Lazarus who claims to be hunting a ruthless maniacal creature.
The Federation and the Klingon Empire teeter on the brink of war as Kirk investigates a humble planet caught in the middle - Organia, inhabited by pacifists
Kirk investigates a series of grisly murders on a mining planet that are the work of a seemingly hostile alien creature.
The Enterprise crew is trapped in paradise when they come to rescue colonists who have fallen to pacifying alien spores and become infected themselves.
The Enterprise arrives at a planet to establish diplomatic relations and finds itself in the middle of a "peaceful" war that threatens to destroy the ship.
The Enterprise picks up a crew of genetic supermen from the 20th century... and their leader, Khan, plans to create a new empire.
The Enterprise encounters a seemingly peaceful civilization run by a "benevolent" being named Landru... who intends for them to join his people.
Captain Kirk's career is at stake when he is put on trial for the loss of a crewman during an ion storm.
The Enterprise narrowly avoids a collision with a black hole and is thrown back to Earth in the 20th century, where they must find a way back and erase any trace of their presence. Matters become complicated when they rescue MORE
When a mysterious alien race destroys an Earth colony, the Enterprise pursues. However, powerful aliens soon immobilize both ships and force Kirk and the alien captain to fight each other to the death.
The Enterprise finds itself at the mercy of a seemingly omnipotent being who fancies himself a 18th century Englishman.
Spock commands a stranded away team when their shuttlecraft is marooned on a planet with hostile natives.
The Enterprise crew take shore leave on a peaceful, pastoral planet... where their dreams and fantasies come to life.
Kirk pits the Enterprise against an invisible spaceship testing the Federation's defenses.
Kirk is one of the last survivors who can identify a mass killer, who lurks among a Shakespearean troupe aboard the Enterprise.
Spock's court-martial continues as he attempts to justify his abduction of Pike, the theft of the Enterprise, and his heading for a planet declared forbidden by Starfleet.
Spock kidnaps his former captain, the crippled Christopher Pike, and heads for a quarantined planet, putting his career and Kirk's life on the line.
The Enterprise encounters a vast alien ship that sets out to test them.
Kirk investigates an experimental facility for holding prisoners and finds a sinister scheme.
Kirk and a landing party are stranded on a planet due to a disease that causes any adult to die a painful death, and must deal with the local children who have survived.
Nurse Christine Chapel is reunited with her old fiance on Exo III, but the scientist has plans for Captain Kirk and the Federation.
The Enterprise picks up a intergalactic conman, Harry Mudd, and three incredibly beautiful women who harbor a dark secret.
A transporter malfunction causes Captain Kirk to split into his "good" and "evil" selves, and a landing party will freeze to death if the crew is unable to find a way to merge the two Kirks back together.
A strange alien substance causes the crew to ignore their inhibitions and act out their deepest desires, while the ship plummets out of orbit.
While exploring the edge of the galaxy, the Enterprise encounters an energy barrier that gives two crewmen godlike powers.
The Enterprise's newest passenger is a young man - what they don't know is that he has the power to make anything he thinks of happen.
Kirk and his crew are at deadly risk from an alien creature that feeds on the salt in a human body and can take on any form.
Captain Pike of the Enterprise is kidnapped by aliens who have mastered illusion.
